---
title: Introduction
description: Let's briefly talk about what stylebender is
index: 0
---

> If you're interested in the idea that gave birth to stylebender, [read here](https://degreat.co.uk/blog/stylebender)

> Stylebender is under heavy development. See [Contributing](/docs/contributing) on how to participate in its development

Stylebender is a style generator — it generates CSS. Right in your browser, you develop the looks you want for your web app and then export. Think of stylebender as a visual editor for your stylesheet.

For developers that don't want to go through _formal_ design processes (with Figma, etc.), this is good news. For others that aren't confident with design (or CSS itself), stylebender is a good starting point to exploring different looks and feel without the technical burden.

You can even let your designer friend develop the looks for you.

## !Everything

Stylebender, now or in the foreseeable, does not intend to be everything. The idea is to offer a quick workflow to boostrap ideas. As projects grow, it's understandable stylebender should not be able to catch up. After all, there are a billion workflows for web development and it'll be delusional to think stylebender can encapsulate all of them.

## The API

The CSS produced by stylebender follows a _think less_ philosophy. In practice, this means there shouldn't be additional setup or lookup after you've added the CSS file to your project. So styles are generated on the html element instead of solely using class names.

For example, the look you develop for buttons look like:

```css
button,
.button {
  padding: 0.5rem 1rem;
  background: blue;
}
```

This means, you don't need to add a button class to a button for it to look good. In some cases, a good guess of class names can work; but we're not lacking in documentation.

## Adding the CSS to your project

Treat the CSS generated by stylebender as any CSS file.

### Vanilla HTML

```html
<head>
  ...
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="/style.css">
</head>
```

### React

```ts
// App.tsx
import './style.css'

function App() { ... }
```
